---
date: 2015-06-09
author: willingc
tags:
  - Brian Curtin
  - Distinguished Service Award
  - Mark Hammond
  - mission
  - psf
  - python
  - community
  - education
  - software
  - wisdom
---

# Mission moment: Mark Hammond, PSF Distinguished Service Award Recipient

Today, the Python Software Foundation, commonly known as PSF in the Python
community, gave the PSF Distinguished Service Award to Mark Hammond. Brian
Curtin, a past PSF Director and long-time communicator of "community"
importance, wrote a thoughtful <a
href="http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/06/mark-hammond-receives-distinguished.html"
target="_blank">PSF blog post</a> about Mark's many contributions to our
Python community. </p><blockquote>The wonderful Python community also has
itself to thank for allowing this book to come to fruition. The Python
newsgroup seems to be one of the final bastions of Usenet where spams are
ignored, newbies are treated kindly, and trolls are either ignored or quickly
turned into a serious and on-topic discussion. Many smart and friendly people
hang out on the newsgroup, and it's one of the more esoteric reasons many
people find using the language enjoyable.</blockquote> <em>Source: Mark
Hammond and Andy Robinson, Python Programming on Win32, O'Reilly &amp;
Associates, Inc., 2000.</em>

Mark and Andy shared this quote in the Acknowledgements section of their
co-authored book on Python and Windows. Fifteen years later, their words about
the Python community still ring true. Personally, I value the many thoughtful
and friendly community members that contribute to the Python language and
ecosystem. I agree that the "smart and friendly people" of the Python
community are one of the key reasons I "find using the language enjoyable".

Mark and his contributions serve the Python language and community. Mark,
congratulations on your award, and thank you!

<blockquote>The <a href="https://www.python.org/psf/mission/"
target="_blank">mission of the Python Software Foundation</a> is to promote,
protect, and advance the Python programming language, and to support and
facilitate the growth of a diverse and international community of Python
programmers.</blockquote> <em>Source: Python.org website.</em>
