---
date: 2013-02-05
author: willingc
tags:
  - "create"
  - "future"
  - "mom"
  - "simplicity"
  - "Alzheimer's"
  - "senses"
  - "software"
---
# Using Senses to Guide Yourself Through the Fog

My mom has Alzheimer's. Sometimes I wonder what she sees and thinks about her
world. She only has about four phrases that she uses now. It is heartbreaking
for me to no longer be seen and recognized by her. Yet, she smiles, hums to
music, snuggles her blanket, and enjoys her orange chicken as if all is okay in
her world.

I believe that she is happy and content. As her world became foggier and less
familiar, she found a way to make peace with the changes. As different cognitive
skills left her, she embraced the simple joys that her senses still brought.
Hearing a song from the 50s. Smelling a favorite cookie baking. Touching a big
teddy bear. Savoring the taste of a newly found chocolate (an old favorite yet
new to her each time). Seeing a sand crane flap his wings gave her moments of
entertainment and wonder. Somehow the simplicity of these familiar senses
created joy and peace as her complex brain began to break down.

I have no idea what the future holds for me. Yet, I am comforted that, just as
my mother, I will use my senses to guide me through life and all its
uncertainty.

So what does the complex world of software development with its many languages
and acronyms have to do with Alzheimer's? If one peels back the confusion around
operating systems and varying ways to accomplish a task, good software makes
sense. It becomes simpler and less complicated. It proves to be familiar and
beautiful as it changes just like my mother's senses.

As I continue to follow my passion and interest in writing software and building
things, I plan to take enough time to admire the beauty, history, and art in the
world around me. I also intend to share my Â interests with the next generation
of problem solvers and lovers of creativity.

> It is not the clear-sighted that lead the world. Great achievements are
> accomplished in a blessed, warm mental fog. -- Joseph Conrad
